Updated build instructions for Oculus Quest (#800)
vircadia/vircadia: BUILD_ANDROID.md

# Build Android

> *Last Updated on October 9, 2020*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Last Updated on December 15, 2020*
```

* Android SDK Tools
* NDK (even if you have the NDK installed separately)

Still in the _SDK Tools_ tab, check off _Show Package Details_ at the bottom. Select CMake 3.6.4. Do this even if you have a separate CMake installation.  Also, make sure the NDK installed version is 18 (or higher).

Now go back to _File_ then _Project Structure_ then under _Project_ set the Android Gradel Plugin Version to `3.2.1` and Gradel Version to `4.10.1`.

If Android Studio pops open the "Plugin Update Recommeded" dialog, do not click update, just click X on the top right to close.  Later versions of the gradel plugin have known issues with cz.malohlava.

## Environment

### Create a keystore in Android Studio

> Follow the directions [here](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing#generate-key) to create a keystore file. You can save it anywhere (preferably not in the `project-athena` folder).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the directions [here](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing#generate-key) to create a keystore file. You can save it anywhere (preferably not in the `vircadia` folder).
```

* Open Android Studio
* Choose _Open an existing Android Studio project_

> * Navigate to the `project-athena` repository you cloned and choose the `android` folder and select _OK_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Navigate to the `vircadia` repository that had you cloned and choose the `android` folder and select _OK_
```

* Wait for Gradle to sync (this should take around 20 minutes the first time)
* If a dialog pops open saying "Plugin Update Recommeded" dialog, do not click update, just click X on the top right to close.

> * In the _Projet_ window click on the project you wish to build (i.e. "questInterface") then click _Build_ in the top menu and choose _Make Module 'questInterface'_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In the _Project_ window click on the project you wish to build (i.e. "questInterface") then click _Build_ in the top menu and choose _Make Module 'questInterface'_
```

> * By default this will build the "debug" apk, you can change this by opening the _Build Varients_ window along the left side and select other build types like "release"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* By default this will build the "debug" apk, you can change this by opening the _Build Variants_ window along the left side and select other build types such as "release".
```

> * Your newly build APK should reside in project-athena\android\apps\questInterface\release (if you chose release)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Your newly build APK should reside in `project-athena\android\apps\questInterface\release` (if you chose release).
```

> * Your newly build APK should reside in `project-athena\android\apps\questInterface\release` (if you chose release).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your newly build APK should reside in `vircadia\android\apps\questInterface\release` (if you chose release).
```

### Running a Module

> You are free to use "abd" command line or other development tools to install (sideload on quest) your newly build APK, or you can follow the instrutions below to load the APK via Android Studio.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are free to use "abd" command line or other development tools to install (sideload on Quest) your newly built APK, or you can follow the instructions below to load the APK via Android Studio.  
```

> You are free to use "abd" command line or other development tools to install (sideload on Quest) your newly built APK, or you can follow the instructions below to load the APK via Android Studio.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are free to use the "adb" command line or other development tools to install (sideload on Quest) your newly built APK, or you can follow the instructions below to load the APK via Android Studio.  
```

* Click the icon with the two overlapping squares in the upper left corner of the tab where the sync is running (hover text says _Toggle view_)
* To change verbosity, click _File > Settings_. Under _Build, Execution, Deployment > Compiler_ you can add command-line flags, as per Gradle documentation

> If you encounter cmake issues, try adding the following system environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter CMake issues, try adding the following system environment variable:
```

> Naviagte to 'Edit the System Environment Variables' Through the start menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your start menu, search for 'Edit the System Environment Variables' and open it.
```

* Click on 'Advanced' tab, then 'Environment Variables'
* Select 'New' under System variables
* Set "Variable name" to QT_CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH

> * Set "Variable value" to the directory that your android build placed the cmake 3.6.4 library cmake directory (i.e. android\qt\lib\cmake).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set "Variable value" to the directory that your android build placed the CMake 3.6.4 library CMake directory (i.e. android\qt\lib\cmake).
```

Some things you can try if you want to do a clean build
 

> * Delete the `build` and `.externalNativeBuild` folders from the folder for each module you're building (for example, `project-athena/android/apps/interface`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Delete the `build` and `.externalNativeBuild` folders from the folder for each module you're building (for example, `vircadia/android/apps/interface`)
```

* Click the icon with the two overlapping squares in the upper left corner of the tab where the sync is running (hover text says _Toggle view_)
* To change verbosity, click _File > Settings_. Under _Build, Execution, Deployment > Compiler_ you can add command-line flags, as per Gradle documentation

If you encounter cmake issues, try adding the following system environment variable:

Naviagte to 'Edit the System Environment Variables' Through the start menu.
* Click on 'Advanced' tab, then 'Environment Variables'
* Select 'New' under System variables
* Set "Variable name" to QT_CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH

> * Set "Variable value" the directory that your android build placed the cmake 3.6.4 library cmake directory (i.e. android\qt\lib\cmake)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Set "Variable value" to the directory that your android build placed the cmake 3.6.4 library cmake directory (i.e. android\qt\lib\cmake).
```
